+++
title = "Setup AD FS for use with Nirmata"
description = ""
weight=50
+++

This section provides instructions on how to setup Microsoft AD FS
(Active Directory Federation Services) as a SAML Identity Provider
(IdP). Before you setup ADFS, you must first enable SAML SSO in Nirmata,
import the IdP Metadata into Nirmata, and export the SP Metadata. You
must also Copy or transfer the SP Metadata XML file to your AD FS
server.

Setting up ADFS involves three steps (the following steps use Windows
Server 2012 R2 and ADFS 3.0):

1)  Import the SP Metadata into ADFS

On your ADFS host open the Server Manager tool and select the **AD FS
Management** option:

![image](/images/adfs-1.png)

In the AD FS Management window, navigate to Trust Relationships -\>
Relying Part Trusts and select **Add Relying Party Trust** from the
right Actions panel:

![image](/images/adfs-2.png)

Select the SP Metadata XML file that you exported from Nirmata:

![image](/images/adfs-3.png)

Provide a Display Name:

![image](/images/adfs-4.png)

If your organization used Multi-factor Authentication (MFA), you can
enable it. Otherwise, leave it disabled:

![image](/images/adfs-5.png)

On the next screen, select **Permit all users to access this relying
party**:

![image](/images/adfs-6.png)

Since we imported the SP settings from the Metadata file, simply click
next on the **Ready to Add Trust** screen:

![image](/images/adfs-7.png)

Make sure that the **Open the Edit Claim Rules dialog\...** option is
checked and close the wizard:

![image](/images/adfs-8.png)

Proceed to configure a SAML claim below.

2)  Setup a SAML Claim Rule for Nirmata

Nirmata requires that the SAML Name ID field contain the email address
of the principal. You can enable this by configuring a SAML Claim Rule
in ADFS.

Click on **Add Rule..** to configure the claim:

![image](/images/adfs-9.png)

Select **Send LDAP Attributes as Claims** and click next:

![image](/images/adfs-10.png)

Enter a name for the claim rule, such as "email address". Then select
**Active Directory** as the Atribute Store. In the mapping section,
select **E-Mail-Addresses** as the LDAP Attribute and **Name ID** as the
Outgoing Claim Type.

![image](/images/adfs-11.png)

Click **Finish** to add the claim and then **OK** to exit the Edit Claim
Rules dialog.

3)  Allow SAML signature certificates to be self-signed

In a SAML message exchange, X.509 Certificates with public and private
key pairs are used to sign and encrypt the data. Since the keys are
exchanged via Metadata and the SAML messages are exchanged over a secure
(TLS) connection, there is no benefit in using CA signed certificates
for signing.

Nirmata generates self-signed certificates for SAML signatures and
encryption. You must setup AD FS to not require CA certificates for SAML
signing and encryption. You can manage these settings using PowerShell
as described below.

Check you current settings using the PowerShell command:

    Get-AdfsRelyingPartyTrust | Select-Object Identifier, SigningCertificateRevocationCheck, EncryptionCertificateRevocationCheck

Look for the Identifier **https://www.nirmata.io/security/api**.

![image](/images/adfs-12.png)

Use this PowerShell command to disable CA certificate checks for
Nirmata:

    Get-AdfsRelyingPartyTrust -Identifier  https://www.nirmata.io/security/api/ | Set-AdfsRelyingPartyTrust -SigningCertificateRevocationCheck None -EncryptionCertificateRevocationCheck None

![image](/images/adfs-13.png)

You should now be able to navigate to your AD FS login page and select
Nirmata (Nirmata Cloud Services). This will initiate the SAML SSO
exchange and authenticate your users with AD FS.

![image](/images/adfs-14.png)

Alternatively, you can also sign in using your email address at:
<https://nirmata.io/>.


